Thinking in React & Higher-Order Functions

[Back Page](/301-notes.md)


## Thinking in React
- What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?
    *       This idea is that a component should only do one thing. If additional things are needed, they should be broken into subcomponents.

- What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?
    *       A static version essentially has no user interactivity. It's the "shell" of your application, but without any of the reactive features. By starting with this step, you should the foundation laid for your app. Then you can focus on the user activity after you have the shell completed. Similar to the concept of a wireframe prior to beginning a website.

- Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?
    *       To continue on after building the static app, you'll need to app state, which revolves around user activity and allows the app to update and react to the interactivity.

- What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?
    *       Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it probably isn’t state. Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it probably isn’t state.Can you compute it based on any other state or props in your component? If so, it isn’t state.  (reactjs)    

-How can you identify where state needs to live?
    *       State should live in the lowest level that makes sense and allows the child component(s) access to it as needed. If that is the immediate parent of the component updating state, it should live there. If multiple components need to update the same state, then it should live in the most direct parent component available to all the children who need it.


## Higher Order-Functions

- What is a “higher-order function”?
    *       A higher-order function is a function that operates on other functions, either as arguments or by returning them (eloquentjavascript)

- Explore the greaterThan function as defined in the reading. In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?
    *       It is returning M, and M is greater than N. 

- Explain how either map or reduce operates, with regards to higher-order functions.
    *       The map method will take an array, and essentially clone it into a new array. So it "maps" the array into a new array by the method.



References:
- [ReactJs](https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html)
- [EloquentJavascript](https://eloquentjavascript.net/05_higher_order.html#h_xxCc98lOBK)