## Mongo and Mongoose

[Back Page](301-notes.md)


- Fill in the chart below with five differences between SQL and NoSQL databases:
    *       SQL Database's are relational   Databases. NoSQL are distributed databases.
    *       SQL DBs are table based Database's. NoSQL are document based.
    *       SQL Database's are predefined schema. NoSQL have dynamic schema
    *       SQL Database's are vertically scalable. NoSQl are horizontally.
    *       SQl Oracle Database, NoSQL MongoDB

- What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?
    *       One with a heavy query request load
- Give a real world example.
    *       MySql, Oracle, Sqlite, and MS-SQL
- What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?
    *       One with a lot of data.
- Give a real world example.
    *       MongoDB, Neo4j and CouchDb
- Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?
    *       SQL
- Which type of database is best for scalability?
    *       NoSQL

- What does SQL stand for?
    *       Structured Query Language
- What is a realational database?
    *       A database that holds data and other database's with connection can access that data.
- What type of structure does a relational database work with?
    *       Tables
- What is a ‘schema’?
    *       A schema is defined by fields like:
     *      ID, name, description, quantity
- What is a NoSQL database?
    *       Non tabular
- Howo does it work?
    *       By storing it's data inside documents
- What is inside of a Mongo database?
    *       JSON documents
- Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.
    *       MongoDB because it doesn't require schema
- What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?
    *       Without schema or records.