## CRUD


[Back Page](301-notes.md)


In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:
- 100’s = 100's are informational. They tell you something is missing and either fail, or it will still try to make things render.
- 200’s = These codes return when things worked successfully. Either via validation, or request was acceptable.
- 300’s = These codes inform the user that their endpoint isn't available right now.
- 400’s = These codes are user error codes. If the user gives in invalid request to the server, they get a 400s status.
- 500’s =  These codes are server error codes. These can happen if a server gets too many API hits and gets overloaded.
- What is a status code 202?
    *       Accepted
- What is a status code 308?
    *       Permanent Redirect
- What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?
    *       204 No Content
- What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?
    *       204 No Content or 410 Gone
- What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?
    *       403 Forbidden

- Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?
    *       Because the app will crash otherwise
- What is middleware?
    *       Code that runs when the server gets a request, but before it gets passed to the route
- What does app.use(express.json()) do?
    *       Let's the server use JSON data as a body, instead of a 'get' element.
- What does the /:id mean in a route?
    *       It is a parameter that you can request to get access to whatever the user passes in after the first /
- What is the difference beween PUT and PATCH?
    *       Patch only updates based on what the user passes to the server. Put would update all the information, instead of the specific value passed by the user.
- How do you make a defalut value in a schema?
    *       You can add the default keyword into your schema template and set the default value.
- What does a 500 error status code mean?
    *       Server error. The server had an error which caused the user request to fail, at no fault of the user's.
- What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?
    *       200 is broad, it says that 'everything worked and was successful' 201 is more specific and tells the user 'successfully created an object.'