## Authentication


[Back Page](/301-notes.md)

#### OAuth
- What is OAuth?
    *       "OAuth is an open-standard authorization protocol or framework that describes how unrelated servers and services can safely allow authenticated access to their assets without actually sharing the initial, related, single logon credential. In authentication parlance, this is known as secure, third-party, user-agent, delegated authorization." (csoonline)
- Give an example of what using OAuth would look like.
    *       An example would be when you go to create a new account with a website, and it has the open to login using your Google/Facebook account.
- How does OAuth work? What are the steps that it takes to authenticate the user?
    *       The Website you want to use OAuth to login to, would connect to an existing account from another site. That existing website creates a one-time access key to use to get into the website. The user is then prompted to authenticate the use of information from the existing website. Once the User agrees, the website grants them access into the new site, via the approved information from the existing site account.
- What is OpenID?
    *       OAuth is the tool used for authorization. OpenID is the authentication that is the authentication layer for OAuth

#### Authorization and Authentication flows
- What is the difference between authorization and authentication?
    *       "Authentication is the process of verifying who someone is, whereas authorization is the process of verifying what specific applications, files, and data a user has access to." (Sailpoint)
- What is Authorization Code Flow?
    *       Since most apps are server-side apps, the source code is not public, authorization code flow exchanges an authoriazation code for a token. The client key, along with the authorization token, is sent to the API and the returned information is given.
- What is Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)?
    *       The steps are similar to the authorization code flow, and the steps are as follows: Click Login, Generate code verifer with challenge question, Authorization code request is sent once Challenge is passed. Prompted for authorization, Consent to authorization. Authorization code is returned. Authorization code and Code verifter is sent to OAuth. OAuth validates the code verifer. Access Token returned, Data is requested to the API with the access token. API responds with requested data.
- What is Implicit Flow with Form Post?
    *       Implicit flow is intended for applications which cannot securely store data.
- What is Client Credentials Flow?
    *       This is a process which authenticates and authorizes an app instead of a user.
- What is Device Authorization Flow?
    *       This is where the app you want permission to, redirects you to use another device to gain access. Example: If you try to subscribe to a streaming service from an Xbox, it will often redirect you to open 'x" link on your phone or laptop to grant the Xbox access to the service.
- What is Resource Owner Password Flow?
    *      This method is not recommended in most situations. But it provides access to the site by inputting your username and password to an existing site. Rather than using a challenge question and gaining an access token. 


Cited materials:
- [CSOonline](https://www.csoonline.com/article/3216404/what-is-oauth-how-the-open-authorization-framework-works.html)
- [Sailpoint](https://www.sailpoint.com/identity-library/difference-between-authentication-and-authorization/#:~:text=Simply%20put%2C%20authentication%20is%20the,a%20user%20has%20access%20to.)
