## Diversity & Inclusion in the Tech Industry


[Back Page](301-notes.md)

Consider the history: That Time When Women Stopped Coding
- What occured during the same time as the beginning of the decline of women in computer sciene? 
    *       Computers started showing becoming more common for households to own.

- Why does it matter that males had been playing on computers growing up?
    *       Because computers were marketed towards males, the male children grew up playing on them and were much more familiar with their usage than woman were.

Review the data: Employee breakdown of key technology companies

- What three take-a-ways do you have looking at this data?
    *       Males employee's are more prominant in the Tech industry. Although white males do make up the majority of tech employees, Asian's have by far the highest US population vs Tech employee percentage of any ethnicity. The majority of Congress and Fortune 500 CEO's are white males.

Ask the question: Why diversity matters to your tech company
- When are diversity efforts most successful?
    *       When the company leaders understand why diversity matters and are committed to the outcome.
- Why do diverse companies perform better? 
    *       Diverse employee groups perform better because each person brings a unique way of approaching problem solving to the table. Thus increasing efficiency.

- Give an example of how a diverse company can serve a diverse user base or vise-versa.
    *       Diverse employee's means users can better identify and relate to the employee's. When the employee's have more diversity, the company considers more factors into their product, and the people who will be using those products.
