## Node.js

[Back Page](/301-notes.md)

- What is node.js?
    *       A runtime of JavaScript built on Chrome's V8 Javascript Engine (Nodejs.org)
- In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?
    *       The V8 Javscript engine is what Google uses in Chrome and Node.js. It's open-source, and used to execute JS code.
- What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?
    *       It means that node is where your JS code is executed when run.
- What is npm?
    *       It is the Package manger for Node. It is used to install and publish node programs.
- What version of node are you running on your machine?
    *       14.17.5
- What version of npm are you running on your machine?
    *       6.14.14
- What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?
    *       npm install jshint
- What is node used for?
    *       Traditional web sites for data intensive, real time, push based architectures.

## 6 Reasons for Pair Programming

- What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?
    *       Greater efficiency, Engaged collaboration, Learning from fellow students, Social skills, Job interview readiness, Work environment readiness
- In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?
    *       #2, Engaged collaboration. I have enjoyed working with another programmer in this aspect because it does a great job of keeping us focused. I find if I ever lose my train of thought, my partner is there to help remind me of where we are at. It's great for not procrastinating as well (as stated).
- How does pair programming work?
    *       Pair programming essentially has two roles. A driver and a navigator. The driver is the one who types the actualy code, the navigator manages more of the big picture and provides guidance to the driver.